Brainshock — Assist PSI. It inflicts the "strangeness" status ailment to an opponent. Can target one or more enemies.
Defense down — Assist PSI. It lowers the defense stat of an enemy to a low or high rate. Can target one or more enemies.
///Healing — Recover PSI. It heals one or more status ailments from an ally. Some status ailments like "Mushroomization" can't be cured. Can be used outside of battle.
Hypnosis — Assist PSI. It inflicts the "sleepiness" status ailment to an opponent. Can target one or all enemies in battle.
///Lifeup — Recover PSI. It heals a party member to a minimum to maximum amount of HP. Can be used outside of battle, and can target one or more allies.
Offense up — Assist PSI. It raises the offensive stat of a party member to a low to high rate. Can be used for one or more allies.
Paralysis — Assist PSI. It inflicts the "numbness" status ailment to an opponent. Can target one or all enemies in battle.
Shield — Assist PSI. Mitigates or counters most physical attacks. Effective when stacked. Can be used to one or all allies.
Telepathy — Event PSI. It is used to communicate directly with the mind of another person, and can be used over great distances. Paula uses it to communicate with Ness and Jeff.
Teleport — Other PSI. When used, it allows the party to teleport to previously-visited towns or settlements. Movement speed gradually increases when Teleport is used, with teleportation occurring after the player successfully avoids obstacles for long enough to reach maximum speed.
PSI Farewell — Event PSI, used by Poo at the end of the game. It appears to function identically to Teleport β.
PSI Fire — Offense PSI. An elemental ability that can burn an opponent. Best against ice-based foes. Targets one row of enemies.
///PSI Flash — Offense PSI. Inflicts a random status ailment to an opponent. It can rarely incapacitate a target. Targets all enemies.
///PSI Freeze — Offense PSI. An elemental ability that can freeze to an opponent. Best against fire-based enemies. Targets one.
///PSI Magnet — Recover PSI. It steals a small amount of PP from the target. Can target one or all.
///PSI Rockin — A very strong Offense PSI ability. Its potential damage range is very broad despite having a high cap, and the attack also has a low chance of failing to affect a target at all. Targets all enemies.
/// PSI Shield — Assist PSI. Dissipates or counters most PSI attacks. Effective when stacked. Can be used to one or all allies.
PSI Starstorm — One of the strongest Offense PSI abilities. Deals major damage. Targets all enemies.
///PSI Thunder — Offense PSI. An elemental ability that can inflict numbness, as well as very high damage. Targets a random opponent. Tends to miss often.